=head1 The Little Plack Book

This outline is a work in progress. It will change and evolve with the book and
our understanding of it. Each second-level heading corresponds to a chapter and
each third-level heading corresponds to a section.

=head2 Introducing Plack

This chapter explains the what and why of Plack and PSGI. It should give
sufficient theory so that the subsequent chapters make sense in the entire
Plack context.

Be sure to explain the ecosystem including documentation, mailing list, advent
calendars, and where to find good modules.

=head2 Deploying a Plack Application

Though the fun parts of Plack are all about the middleware, most of the use of
Plack is I<deploying> applications.

=head3 Your F<.psgi> File

Creating and modifying and comprehending.

=head3 Choosing a Server

Is this the right place? See the parallel to the next chapter on middleware.
"Choose FastCGI when... Choose mod_perl when.... Choose Twiggy when...."

=head2 Middleware

The PSGI protocol gives plenty of opportunities to add features by decorating
your application. (First someone has to explain what decorating an application
means.)

=head3 How Middleware Works

There may be a dependency here on Plack::Request and Plack::Response. How much
detail should this include?

=head3 Enabling Middleware

With Plack::Builder and, perhaps, without.

=head3 Important Middleware

Logging, authentication, security filtering, rewriting, proxying -- pick a few
of the best pieces of middleware and show them off here.

=head2 Testing Plack Applications

Everything starts to pay off here. Be careful not to let this overwhelm the
rest of the book. Note that effective testing of all of the decorated
possibilities is both useful and tricky--very much a selling point few others
will tackle.

=head2 Inside Plack

How much detail does this need? An architectural overview may suffice. Be
careful not to tie this too much to details which will change but do document
the various moving pieces people will need to use.

=head3 PSGI

This may be covered earlier and better elsewhere.

=head3 Plack::Request

=head3 Plack::Response

=head2 Writing Plack Middleware

See Plack::Middleware. What's the relationship to Plack::App though? Merge this
with the internals chapter?

=head3 Composability

How to play nicely with other middleware. At first blush, this means trying not
to stomp all over the session. It may also mean not conflicting with other
middleware and extensions merely installed.

=head3 Extensibility

How to write sufficiently generic middleware.

If everything's a closure which takes one parameter and returns one value, how
do you give people the opportunity to configure things? Partial application
over curried objects (or however else you provide genericity) makes it happen.

In other words, think like a JavaScript programmer and return a closure.

=head2 Plack for Frameworks

Here goes advanced material that may or may not be useful to most people. Is it
worth doing? Think about this and commit only when absolutely necessary.

See also Mojolicious and its PSGI without Plack. TIMTOWTDI.
