=head1 Testing with C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI>

Z<mech_psgi>

X<C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI>>

C<Plack::Test> offers fine-grained control over the details of HTTP requests
and responses. It's most appropriate for testing handlers, middleware, and
other Plack components which modify requests and responses. For testing
applications, C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI> may be more useful.

Like C<Plack::Test>, C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI> can run your PSGI
application it the same process without needing to communicate with a running
HTTP server. Unlike C<Plack::Test>, TWMP cannot currently communicate with a
running HTTP server. For most application testing, this is unlikely to be a
problem.

=head2 The C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI> Structure

X<C<Test::WWW::Mechanize>>
X<C<WWW::Mechanize>>
X<C<LWP::UserAgent>>

C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI> is an object oriented module and subclasses
C<Test::WWW::Mechanize> which in turn subclasses C<WWW::Mechanize>, itself a
child of C<LWP::UserAgent>, to provide several test assertions as methods.
Start your testing by creating a new object. Pass your PSGI application to the
constructor. The resulting object can perform HTTP requests and you can examine
it or call test assertions on it.

=begin programlisting

    use Test::More;
    use Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI;

    use My::App;

    my $app  = get_my_app();
    my $mech = Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI->new( app => $app );

    # ready for testing

=end programlisting

=head2 Basic Tests

Given the example testing app (L<basic_psgi_test_app>) from the C<Plack::Test>
section, the same testing strategy applies. Basic tests must verify that HTTP
C<GET> and C<POST> methods with the appropriate query or form parameters
produce the expected results. The Mechanize approach simplifies the
construction and examination of the requests.

The C<get_ok()> method performs a C<GET> request and asserts that the request
succeeded by returning an HTTP C<2xx> status code. Performing a request stores
within the object the I<contents> of the response, so that subsequent methods
can examine the Mechanize object and make further test assertions. This is
easier to show than to explain:

=begin programlisting

    $mech->get_ok( '/?have=foo;want=foo',
        'Request should succeed when values match' );
    $mech->content_is( 'ok', '... with descriptive success message' );

=end programlisting

If the C<GET> fails, the first test assertion will fail as well. There is no
corresponding C<get_not_ok> method, so you must use the C<success> method
provided by the grandparent class C<WWW::Mechanize> instead:

=begin programlisting

    $mech->get( '/?have=10;want=20' );
    ok ! $mech->success, 'Request should fail when values do not match';

    $mech->content_is( 'not ok', '... with descriptive error' );

=end programlisting

X<C<URI>>

You can construct your own URIs with query strings with the C<URI> module:

=begin programlisting

    my $uri = URI->new( '/' );
    $uri->query_form( have => 'cow',
                      want => 'cow',
                      desc => 'Cow Comparison' );

    $mech->get_ok( $uri, 'Request should succeed when values do' );
    $mech->content_is( 'ok - Cow Comparison',
        '... including description when provided' );

=end programlisting

... and you may poke into the C<HTTP::Response> object contained within the
Mech object when Mech doesn't provide test assertions for specific information:

=begin programlisting

    is $mech->content_type, 'text/plain', '... with plain text content';
    is $mech->response->content_charset, 'US-ASCII', '... in ASCII';

=end programlisting

Performing C<POST> requests is similar. The first argument to the method is the
URI to which to post. The second is an array reference of key/value pairs to
use as C<POST>ed form data:

=begin programlisting

    $mech->post( '/', [ have => 'cow', want => 'pig', desc => 'æ' ] );
    ok ! $mech->success, 'Request should fail given different values';
    $mech->content_is( "not ok - \x{00E6}",
        '... including description when provided' );
    is $mech->content_type, 'text/plain', '... with plain text content';
    is $mech->response->content_charset, 'UTF-8', '... encoded as UTF-8';

=end programlisting

Other useful action methods are C<head_ok()> and C<put_ok()>, which perform
HTTP C<HEAD> and C<PUT> requests respectively.

=head2 Stateful Mechanize

As you've noticed, the Mech object remembers the state of the response. Not
only does this allow you to make test assertions against the response such as
C<content_is()> and C<content_like()>, but you can submit forms, click buttons,
and follow links on the content. See the documentation for
C<Test::WWW::Mechanize> for more details.

This encapsulation and statefulness affords you the interesting possibility of
testing application behavior with and without certain middleware active or with
and without user authentication active, for example.

=head2 When to use Mechanize

C<WWW::Mechanize> has a larger ecosystem than C<Plack::Test> does, due to its
age. Several CPAN distributions provide useful extensions.

=over 4

=item * C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver> supports data-driven testing by reading
YAML files containing details of requests to make and tests to run. You can
provide a C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI> object to its constructor.

=item * C<WWW::Mechanize::Plugin::Ajax> adds Ajax support to C<WWW::Mechanize>.

=item * C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::Mojo> is a Mechanize built to test applications
written using the Mojolicious web framework.

=item * C<Test::WWW::Mechanize::Catalyst> does the same for the Catalyst
framework.

=back

Unfortunately, C<WWW::Mechanize>'s subclassing design can make it difficult for
some of these modules to interact with others. In time perhaps a newer design
will allow more flexibility and composition possibilities.
