=head1 Plack and PSGI

Z<plack_and_psgi>

PSGI is the specification. Any code--server, middleware, or application--which
conforms to the PSGI specification should interoperate with any other code
which also conforms to the specification.

X<Plack>

I<Plack> is a toolkit which implements the PSGI specification. It's a reference
implementation in that it follows PSGI as closely as possible, but it's also
currently the best known and most used implementation. Besides serving as a
reference for I<how> to use PSGI effectively, Plack provides plenty of code to
help write PSGI applications--so much, in fact, that it's common to talk about
using and supporting Plack and not merely PSGI.

In short, PSGI is deliberately simple and minimal so as to require as little
from implementations as possible, while Plack is more powerful and offers far
more abstractions. Plack provides several features, including:

=over 4

=item C<Plack::Request> and C<Plack::Response>

X<C<Plack::Request>>
X<C<Plack::Response>>

These two modules provide object-oriented interfaces to the PSGI environment
request and the PSGI response, respectively. As with all well-defined classes,
this offers the possibility of customization. For example, a web framework
which supports Plack could produce its own Plack-compatible C<::Request> and
C<::Response> subclasses to add additional behaviors.

=item * C<plackup>, C<Plack::Builder>, and F<.psgi> files

X<C<plackup>>
X<F<.psgi> files>
X<C<Plack::Builder>>

By convention, PSGI-compatible applications have the F<.psgi> suffix. The file
should contain Perl 5 code which returns a function reference to serve as the
entry point into the PSGI application. The C<plackup> utility runs F<.psgi>
files.

C<Plack::Builder> provides helper syntax for use in F<.psgi> files to manage
the use of middleware and applications.

=item C<Plack::Test>

X<C<Plack::Test>>
X<C<Test::Builder>>
X<testing>

The C<Plack::Test> module allows test code to run a Plack application on any of
the available backend servers--or without a server at all. It is fully
compatible with any Perl testing module built on C<Test::Builder>.

=item the C<Plack::*> namespace

Plack provides and preserves a namespace on the CPAN under which you can
publish public Plack extensions. While full-blown applications and frameworks
do not belong in the C<Plack::*> namespace, Plack reserves C<Plack::App::*> for
middleware components which represent the end point in a request--such as
serving static files or proxying to another server. Plack also reserves
C<Plack::Middleware::*> for reusable middleware components which can serve at
any point in an application's stack--such as a logging or authentication
component.

=item C<Plack::Middleware>

X<C<Plack::Middleware>>

C<Plack::Middleware> is a base class from which new Plack middleware can
inherit. Using this as your base class allows your middleware to co-exist with
other middleware.

=item C<Plack::Handler>

X<C<Plack::Handler>>

C<Plack::Handler> is a class which defines the interface between C<plackup> and
a server backend for PSGI.

=back
