=head1 The PSGI Pattern

Z<psgi_pattern>

X<PSGI>

Plack itself is an implementation of PSGI, which is itself a documented
interface with a protocol. The PSGI interface underlies and supports Plack,
because PSGI defines what a web application is. PSGI isn't magic. PSGI is
merely a standardization of what you as a web programmer already know.

=begin sidebar

X<WSGI>
X<Rack>

PSGI and Plack count as inspiration Python's WSGIN<See
U<http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0333/>> and Ruby's RackN<See
U<http://chneukirchen.org/blog/archive/2007/02/introducing-rack.html>>.

=end sidebar

Consider how a web application works. A client makes a request of a server,
passing along a URL via one of the HTTP methods, other HTTP headers, and other
request information. The server performs some action, whether reading a file or
invoking part or all of a program. The server returns an HTTP status code, some
HTTP headers, and the body of the response.

Assuming you have some sort of web server set up to run a Perl program, you
could write a very simple Perl web application like:

=begin programlisting

    sub hello_world
    {
        return [ 200, [ 'Content-Type', text/html' ], 'Hello, world!' ];
    }

=end programlisting

The pattern of such a Perl web application is:

=begin programlisting

    sub application
    {
        my $http_environment = shift;

        my ($status_code, $headers, $body) = activate( $http_environment );

        return [ $status_code, $headers, $body ];
    }

=end programlisting

X<C<curl>>
X<C<telnet>>

In practice, some of that data is optional--given a simple HTTP GET request
typed in manually from C<curl> or C<telnet>, there may be no incoming HTTP
headers or HTTP payload. Likewise, the server may respond with merely the HTTP
status code.

PSGI codifies and encapsulates this pattern. A PSGI-compatible application is a
Perl function which takes as a single argument a hash reference of HTTP request
data and returns a one-to-three element array reference of HTTP response data.
You could have invented this. It's really that simple.

X<PSGI; specification>

The PSGI specification (see C<perldoc PSGI>) explains the details of what the
HTTP environment hash must and may contain. As you might expect, required HTTP
specifics include the HTTP request method, the application's URI request path,
any extra path elements, and other HTTP headers. PSGI adds extra parameters
such as the input stream for HTTP C<PUT> or C<POST> data and an error output
stream.

This specification offers two benefits. First, every application which complies
with PSGI can work with every server which provides a PSGI environment. It
doesn't matter whether the server communicates with clients over telnet or
avian-aware IPN<See RFC 1149 at U<http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1149.txt>.> or
even if the server speaks HTTP to clients at allN<See C<Plack::Test>.>. The
unification of interface offers flexibility and independence to PSGI
applications.

Second, the silly example code itself demonstrates a subtle but powerful
feature of PSGI. While the C<application()> function is a PSGI-compatible web
application, so is the C<activate()> function it calls:

=begin programlisting

        my ($status_code, $headers, $body) = activate( $http_environment );

=end programlisting

=for author

Add link to middleware chapter when it exists.

=end for

A PSGI-compatible application--a function conforming to the PSGI interface--may
wrap one or more other PSGI-compatible applications. Almost anything you can
imagine in possible this way. In particular, this enables middleware to
intercept, rewrite, modify, redispatch, and even bypass applications as
desired.
